# HoG + SVM + Selective Search for Image Classification and Object Detection

Requirements:
python>=3.8
opencv-python>=4.8.0.76
imutils>=0.5.4
numpy>=1.24.0
scikit-learn>=1.3.0
pyyaml>=6.0.1
joblib>=1.3.0
tqdm>=4.66.1

This method implements a classical computer vision–based image classification system that combines HOG feature extraction, a one-vs-rest SVM classifier, and Selective Search for region proposal. The goal is to detect and classify objects in images without using deep learning.

We train two different kinds of models:
1. Whole-image model: a One-vs-Rest model that is based on the entire images in the training set. This model serves as the comprehensive classifier which label the whole image, so it paves the way for the detection task.
2. Regional models: a set of 12 seperate SVM models that are based on the regional images annotated (yolo bounding box format) in the training set. This kind of models is used to classify the proposed regions generated by Selective Search during the detection phase, which eliminates undesired regions and refines the detection results.

Pipeline for detection:
0. Input an image for detection.
1. Extract HOG features from the input image.
2. Use the whole-image model to predict the class of the entire image.
3. Apply Selective Search to generate region proposals in the image.
4. For each proposed region, extract HOG features and use one of previously trained regional models (which used depends on the class predicted by the whole-image model) to classify the region.
5. Apply Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) to filter overlapping bounding boxes and refine the final detections.
6. Output the final bounding boxes and class labels for detected objects in the image.

Analysis and Results:
- The whole-image model achieved an accuracy of approximately 17% on the validation set, indicating that classifying entire images is challenging with this approach.
- The final detection works relatively well for the moth class (with its AP reached 0.14, distinctively higher than other classes), likely due to moths are monotonous in color and texture, making them easier to detect using HOG features.
